- https://lobste.rs/s/9z6wjk/just_because_it_s_old_doesn_t_make_it_tech
	- I would distinguish 3 *orthogonal* concepts:
		- Past designs which were correct at the time, but are now a problem, and require refactoring for some new feature or change.
		- Past designs which were a mistake, in that they could have been avoided with better decisions *even with only the information available at the time*. These may or may not now be a problem, incidentally, but if we’re discussing them they usually are.
		- Blame. In the case of 1, there is no one to blame. In the case of 2, there may be someone to blame, but that blame in the real world is often complicated. *Maybe* a single developer is to blame, but maybe it is a whole team, or the lead, or someone higher up who created unrealistic deadlines which led to corner cutting.
		- The phenomenon described by the article stems from mixing up these concepts under an umbrella term “tech debt” – in particular, applying blame uniformly in all cases.
		- Ime, people obsess over blame because they believe (usually wrongly) that holding people responsible can prevent the same types of problems from occurring in some mythical future. But this fundamentally misunderstands what is actually happening.
	- This is a decent summary. I think from observation the one to be most cautious of is self blame, especially from more junior members of the team. I’ve seen a lot of people feel that they are being blamed when code they wrote (likely under almost direct instruction) turns out to fall into category one.I’ve made sure, as much as I can to help them to see the difference between these categories to better understand that software development is a team sport. Just because you wrote the code, doesn’t make you personally responsible for all of its implications.
	- Reply:
		- This is reasonable advice to give to juniors but it also has a long-term danger that’s worth being conscious of: it suggests that the reason you shouldn’t get mired in self-blame is because someone else was telling you what to do.
		- That idea will help people avoid self-blame for quite a while, but if they stick around long enough, eventually they may find themselves on a team where they’re the specialist or the undisputed expert on some aspect of the software and there’s nobody else around who can offer meaningful constructive feedback on their topic of expertise. At that point, “I didn’t come up with this on my own; it was the team” will no longer shut down the self-blame because it won’t be true.
		- In some sense, making it about the team is an exercise in deflecting blame, not eliminating it.
		- I think a healthier mindset that works both for new grads and veterans is, “Mistakes will happen, they will almost never be the end of the world, and all we can do is learn from them and make a reasonable effort to minimize their impact and avoid repeating them.” With special emphasis on the “not the end of the world” part! This is, unfortunately, a much harder mindset to get oneself into than, “It’s the team’s fault, not mine.” But another benefit is that it applies to life in general, not just software!
		- [[知无常]]的练习
		-
			-