- https://bvisness.me/coroutines/
	- TAG: [[coroutines]]
	- And at the end of the day, none of this even looks like programming. We would teach students how to write procedural code, with if statements and loops and local variables, and then our autonomous code would throw it all out the window. They weren't writing Java any more, they were writing Command Code.
	- And finally, coroutines allow us to actually compose behaviors the way we want. Each chunk of autonomous behavior can be its own coroutine, and we can construct larger coroutines that call them in sequence, or in parallel, or whatever. It always looks exactly like procedural code. It's the best of all worlds.
	- Addendum: educator things
		- If you're an educator, pay serious attention to how your students react to new programming concepts. Most students will pick up procedural programming ideas quite quickly, especially when they see examples. But some programming concepts just give students existential dread.
		- Examples: object-oriented design, getters and setters, formatting, naming, "commands", "design patterns".
		- Notice how none of these things have to do with how the program actually works. Although they can't articulate it, beginners can recognize when they are not learning anything tangible or useful. If you have a hard time persuading a student that some idea is important, consider that it *probably isn't*.
		- Commands were a perfect example of this. No amount of explaining the lifecycle methods of `init`, `execute`, `isFinished`, and `end` really stuck with the students - I was always met with blank stares. Our fancy service locator thing didn't work either, nor did the fancy loading from config files, nor did these abstract ideas about which methods "belonged" in different "subsystems". None of that mattered, and the more we cut these things out of our code, the more the students have engaged with it.
		- So please pay close attention to how your students feel. If they go beyond mere confusion into disappointment and disillusionment, you can probably find a way to simplify.
	-